What happens when you want
to look at a dynamic value?
In other words, when you can't predict the
route that you're going to, so take for
instance, when we go into Pokedex, and
Pokedex has different Pokemon, right?
That is the way the Pokedex works.
What if we wanted to actually render
out the different Pokemon but
we wanted to do you think based
on the parameter in the URL?
So an example of this might be,
if we're looking at the Pokedex page,
and you say, okay,
theoretically what I'd like to be able to
do is also then go to a page that
goes to like go to/Pokedex/1.
And that should call the first Pokemon.
In other words, this part is dynamic
because what we don't wanna do is define
1.view, 2.view, and etc.
And so, how might that actually work?
Well, when it comes to that,
what we're actually looking at is
around the idea of dynamic param IDs.
So the way this works, is we go inside
of our router, inside our playground.
And what we have here,
is we have a path here,
that /Pokedex/ with a colon ID.
And this is what tells it that
it's going to be dynamic.
And then from here, we can then say, let's
create a Pokemon page cuz this would fetch
a specific Pokemon in
this particular case.
Let me SSC this, and
then let's just say Pokemon.
And for now we'll just say number 100 to
show that it's wrong as far as the URL is
concerned.
And then we'll just do component,
and this time we'll just
import the path at views/Pokemon
page.view, Save, okay.
So to prove that this works, we're gonna
go ahead and on the Pokédex page right
here, we will have a router link that goes
to /Pokédex, and this time we'll do /20.
Just that so it's something different.
Go to Pokemon number 20.
Okay, we see that here.
And if we click on this,
you'll see that it does correctly
jump us over to the page.
But what we need is we need to be able
to pull in the dynamic data, right?
How does that work?
Well, when you used to do it in View 2,
the way you would do it in Options API and
you could still could,
is you do this.route.params.
That's usually what you
would reach out for.
But in an effort to get you all
practicing with Composition API and
seeing what an alternative form might
look like, what might you reach for?
Probably a helper method, right?
So we have something called use route,
cuz it's from view router.
Then we can say const route = useRoute.
And then before we do anything,
let's just log that out real quick and
show you what we get.
This is the Pokedex page,
I need to go back.
So, in the Pokedex page, you'll see now,
that we expand this out to the target.
It has a bunch of stuff actually, params,
name, meta, and then if you broke it down
to like query stuff, there's a whole ton
of stuff under there that you can unpack.
But the one we care about
is gonna be the parameters.
So, let me go ahead and
actually move this useRoute,
cuz the where we need it
is not the Pokedex page.
We need to on the Pokemon page.
Let me drop this over here instead.
And so, now let's go ahead and
go to Pokemon 20.
And now we'll notice,
actually we refresh, there we go.
We have our route being rendered.
And when we look at our params, you'll
see that we have an ID of 20 in here.
And where does this ID come from?
This ID comes from what we named
right here inside of our path.
That's where it's actually been defined.
So, well, we've got, if we want.
We say route.params.id.
And if we do that and refresh the page,
you'll see, there it is, 20.
That's all it takes.
And so now your imagination can go from
here, you could go to the Pokemon API.
And then when you load the page, you can
go ahead and fetch the right Pokemon,
get its attributes, render it to the page.
But for the sake of conciseness,
we're just gonna go ahead and
show that here just like this,
route.params.ID.
And then, just like that, you now have
a dynamic page that can take any argument.
And then, however you see fit, you can
programmatically set up else conditions,
if else, whatever not,
to render the right stuff to your users.
>> What about params for parent routes?
>> Okay, so the question here is
around params for parent routes.
So what you're saying is that,
if it's like, so
basically lets get that real quick.
Are you saying something like,
if Pokerdex had then like on top of ID for
the Pokerman,
there was an additional thing for element?
So then you might be on element page and
you wanna look at your ID params?
>> Potentially.
>> Yeah, so I believe the moment
you do the route basically,
you should basically get everything
that comes as a part of that route.
And so, this goes beyond the scope of the
fundamentals review router, but there's
even things like nested views, and all
those things that we can play around with.
So, you should be able to get the parent
from .path without any problem.
And that's why it would be a good
practice, for example, not in your
router.js, to define another route that
uses the same parameter like name.
Like you wouldn't want to be like ID ID.
So, I think that would actually probably,
I'm almost certain that would break the
about view router cuz it'd be confused.
And so, in that particular case, that's
where it's important to be just specific
about what that parameter name is.
And then the route should
contain all of those parameters
correctly appended into that object.
>> So you said nested routes,
could you have like region was
the thing you were saying?
>> Yeah.
>> Region/region ID or
region name-
>> Yep.
>> And then underneath that have
the Pokedex for that region, and
then have a Pokemon page-
>> Yeah.
>> Parameter on that?
>> We can.
And so,
it's not part of this exercise, but
since this is a question I do
wanna show this for the nested.
If we look at the docs right here,
and we look at nested routes.
The thing about nested route is it's easy
to think of it like what we just did,
cuz you see here,
user Johnny profile, right?
You're like,
didn't we just do this pokerdex/ pokermon?
This is different,
because a nested view means that you have
a router view inside of a router view.
Meaning the rest of the page
stays the same, and
just that one section of the page
changes based on the URL.
So as you can see here, inside of this
example, let me blow it up a lot.
Is that the user page out
here which is the shell,
which is /user, is currently
bringing in the Johnny child, right?
So there will be user Johnny.
But the nested view here is for
the profile and the posts.
And so
you can almost think of it like tabs,
where you don't want the whole page to
rerender if you click on posts for Johnny.
You want everything else to stay the same,
you just wanna switch
the tab that's inside of it.
And so, nested views are basically this
concept that without having to rerender
the entire page,
you can just render a portion of it and
have that update based on the URL.
And so, that can be as highly performant
as well when it comes to doing things
for your app.
So I know it's funny that nested views
like sort of had a resurgence lately in
the discussion.
But this has been in view for
quite a while.
But I do wanna make you all aware of it.
So that if you ever find that you're like,
everything else needs to change, or sorry,
everything needs to stay the same, except
for this one part when the URL swaps,
nested views, or nested routes.
Check this out,
this will solve your problems.